Parameters
==========

About Paramters
---------------
The CCHDO works frequently with many paramters common in hydrography.
Provided here is a description of many common paramters encountered in exchange files.

.. warning::
  This list may not contain every paramter which may be encountered in an exchange file.
  CCHDO is working on providing a machine readable list of ALL paramters which may be encountered in all files.
  This list will include paramters which CCHDO lacks a descirption for (known unknown parmaters).
  When this list becomes available, we intend to tie the generation of this paramter list with the machine readable list of paramters.

  Until that time, paramters may appear in exchange formats from the CCHDO which are not documented here.
  No undocumented paramter or field will cause data integrity or usefulness issues (i.e. all undocumented paramters may be safely ignored).

Definitions
^^^^^^^^^^^
Provided with each paramter is a set of information in a table, the information included in that table should be interpreted as follows:

* Units: These are the common units encountered for this paramter as it will appear in the exchange document itself.
         The special units of "None" means the field will be either blank or contain only whitespace.
* Data Type: Specifies the allowed type of data in the data records for this paramter.
             There are three types of data, string (str), integers (int), and decimal.
             String data types may be any printing charicter except a comma ``,`` which is the field seperator.
             Integer data types may only contain numbers without a decimal point, quality flags are usually integers.
             Decimal data types may be any real number (including an integer) and may include decimal point, the precision is not specified.
* Quality Flags: Specifies which set of quality flag definitions should be used to interpret a quality flag column for this paramter (if present).
                 Current quality flags are: :ref:`bottle <Bottle Quality Codes>`, :ref:`water <Water Quality Codes>`, :ref:`ctd <CTD Quality Codes>`, and ``time (proposed)``.
                 See the :ref:`Quality Codes` section for more information
* Required: Specifies if the paramter must be present (and have a value).
            Paramters that are not required may be omitted from files (i.e. a non required paramter may be entirely absent from a file)

Common Parameters
-----------------

.. hlist::
  :columns: 3

  * EXPOCODE_
  * SECT_ID_
  * STNNBR_
  * CASTNO_
  * SAMPNO_
  * BTLNBR_
  * DATE_
  * TIME_
  * LATITUDE_
  * LONGITUDE_
  * DEPTH_
  * CTDPRS_
  * CTDTMP_
  * CTDSAL_
  * SALNTY_
  * CTDOXY_
  * OXYGEN_
  * SILCAT_
  * NITRAT_
  * NO2+NO3_
  * NITRIT_
  * PHSPHT_
  * CFC-11_
  * CFC-12_
  * CFC113_
  * CCL4_
  * TRITUM_
  * HELIUM_
  * DELHE3_
  * DELC14_
  * DELC13_
  * O18O16_
  * ALKALI_
  * TCARBN_
  * PCO2_
  * PCO2_TMP_
  * PH_
  * PH_TMP_
  * PH_SCALE_
  * DOC_
  * TDN_

.. _expocode:

EXPOCODE
^^^^^^^^

=============== =========
Units           None
Data Type       string
Quality Flags   None
Required        YES
=============== =========

The expedition code, assigned by the CCHDO or generated by the user.
Used as the unique identifier for the cruise.
Usual generation formula is NODC 4 charicter platform code then the cruise depature date in YYYYMMDD format.
The underscore ``_`` charicter may also be present.

.. _sect_id:

SECT_ID
^^^^^^^

=============== =========
Units           None
Data Type       string
Quality Flags   None
Required        NO
=============== =========

If a repeat of a WOCE section, this is the WHP section identifier.
Examples include: ``A12``, ``A13.5``, ``P02``.

.. note::
  There may be inconsisntency in the how line numbers are represented.
  For example, ``P02`` might be present as ``P2``, these represent the same SECT_ID.
  Two digit zero padded line numbers are the canonical representation, please inform the CCHDO if non zero padded line numbers are encountered.

STNNBR
^^^^^^^

=============== =========
Units           None
Data Type       string
Quality Flags   None
Required        YES
=============== =========

The originator's station number.
May be any alphanumeric except a comma ``,``.
Usually only numeric values appear.

CASTNO
^^^^^^

SAMPNO
^^^^^^^

BTLNBR
^^^^^^

DATE
^^^^

=============== =========
Units           None
Data Type       string (or int)
Quality Flags   None
Required        YES
=============== =========

The UTC date in zero padded YYYYMMDD format.
The date reported is usually cast bottom for Bottle files and cast start for CTD files.
Valid range for YYYY: 0001-9999.
Valid range for MM: 01-12.
Valid range for DD: 01-31 (depends on month and year).
The format of dates corrisponds to the C-strftime format of ``%Y%m%d``.

The date should be read as a string, but be able to be cast unambigiously to an integer.
To convert from integer representation, left pad zeros to match the date format descritpion.
For example, the integer ``8020202`` is the date ``08020202`` or Feb 2nd, 802.
This is a very unlikly situation.


TIME
^^^^

=============== =========
Units           None
Format          string (or int)
Quality Flags   Time (proposed)
Required        NO
=============== =========

The UTC time in zero padded hhmm format.
The time reported is usually cast bottom for Bottle files and cast start for CTD files.
Valid range for hh: 00-24
Valid range for mm: 00-59
The format of times corrisponds to the C-strftime format of ``%H%M``.

The time should be read as a string, but be able to be cast unambigiously into an integer.
To convert from an integer, left pad zeros to match the time format description.

.. note::
  Times represented as integers will be present in netcdf files.
  Times in netcdf files will be anywhere from 1 to 4 digits.
  E.g. a time of 6 as in integer represents 6 minutes after midnight or 0006

.. note::
  Time not being required is not an omission or mistake.
  If time is not present, then the temporal resolution of the data is reduced to a 24 hour period.
  It is the responsibility of the user of the data to omit files/casts which do not meet their temporal resolution requirements.

.. note::
  Midnight is a special case in that it has two valid representations: ``0000`` and ``2400``.
  The date ``20140202`` at time ``0000`` is the same instant as the date ``20140201`` at time ``2400``.
  This corresponds to times allowed by ISO 8601.

LATITUDE
^^^^^^^^

LONGITUDE
^^^^^^^^^

DEPTH
^^^^^

CTDPRS
^^^^^^

CTDTMP
^^^^^^

CTDSAL
^^^^^^

SALNTY
^^^^^^

CTDOXY
^^^^^^

OXYGEN
^^^^^^

SILCAT
^^^^^^

NITRAT
^^^^^^

NO2+NO3
^^^^^^^

NITRIT
^^^^^^

PHSPHT
^^^^^^

CFC-11
^^^^^^

CFC-12
^^^^^^

CFC113
^^^^^^

CCL4
^^^^

TRITUM
^^^^^^

HELIUM
^^^^^^

DELHE3
^^^^^^

DELC14
^^^^^^

DELC13
^^^^^^

O18O16
^^^^^^

ALKALI
^^^^^^

TCARBN
^^^^^^

PCO2
^^^^

PCO2_TMP
^^^^^^^^

PH
^^

PH_TMP
^^^^^^

PH_SCALE
^^^^^^^^

DOC
^^^

TDN
^^^

